Attention:
- Do not edit this file in text editors like Word. Use a plain text editor only. In case of doubt, you can use Spyder as a text editor.
- Do not change the structure of this file. Just fill in your answers in the places provided (After the R#: tag).
- You can add lines in the spaces for your answers but your answers should be brief and straight to the point.
- You can include references to images or html files such as the reports generated with clusters. To do this, simply include this document in the folder with the reports or images and refer them in the text by the file name in an isolated line. For example, the line

test.png

refers to a test.png image file in the same folder as this document.

QUESTIONS:

Q1: Explain how you selected the best attributes for the clustering phase. In particular, indicate the visualization methods used to explore the extracted attributes and any statistical tests used.
R1: To select the features we used the f_classif function to score each feature and selected the five best. To visualize the scores we ploted the values return for each of the 18 features alowing 
us to visualise the best by comparing them against each other.


Q2: After selecting the attributes, did you standardize or normalize the values? Justify your decision.
R2: We standardized the attributes so as to avoid value fluctuations during the fitting phase of the clustering phase that would affect negativly the performance of 
the fitting method making the values closer to each other.

Q3: Explain how you found the neighborhood radius value (epsilon) for the DBSCAN algorithm by following the procedure described in the article "A density-based algorithm for discovering clusters in large spatial databases with noise".
R3: To choose the epsilon first we plotted the vector that had the distance to the k-th nearest neighbor (4th nearest neighbor in our case) of each point sorted descendently.  With this
graph we obtained the graph recomended in the article and were able to choose the threshold that seperated normal points from noise by choosing the point where the
distance values tended to descend in a smoother way.
 

Q4: Examining the clusters generated by the DBSCAN algorithm with the value optimized by the method described in the article, do you think the result is adequate to cluster these images? Justify your answer.
R4: The clusters are not adequate considering that they do not seperate the images in proper categories. This happens because of how we are analysing the images. We select
pixels as image features, but each image has 2500 pixels and even if some of the pixels are inadequate for evaluation (black pixels in the 4 corners of each image that don't change),
we're only selecting a maximum of 18 total features from those 2500, which is not even 1% of the pixels, DBSCAN being a density-based algorithm "struggles" to correctly classify the
items from a set with a large amount of features while using such a small portion of them.


Q5: Describe your analysis of the k (for K-Means) and epsilon (for DBSCAN) parameters using the internal and external indicators referred in the assignment page. Include the two plots of the indicator values ​​(indicating the image name of each plot in one line in your answer) as a function of the k and epsilon parameters and explain how you chose the ranges for examining these parameters. Indicate, with justification, what conclusions you can draw from this analysis.
R5: Due to K-Means' non-deterministic nature, while incrementing k the predictions and therefore the scores become more and more unstable and irregular, because of this we decided
to make k vary between 2 and 30. In our analysis, we've found that the silhouette and rand scores remian mostly constant for all k values, precision increases with k while all remaining
other remaining scores decrease, this is because k is the number of predicted clusters, more clusters, which means it's less likely for for images of a different group to be in the same cluster,
however the clusters will become smaller, so images from the same group will be scattered across many different clusters. 
This behaviour can be explaine by the fact that the closser to the elbow the epsilon gets the less points of the same group are classified as such. However more points of different groups are clustered in different clusters.

In the case of DBSCAN we varied the values of epsilon from 0.4 to 1.1. With this variation the Silhoute score would always increase with epsilon since the number of groups is smaller. All others beside the Recall Score and the F1 would increase with with the epsilon until it got closer to elbow and would decrease afterwards. The Recall Score is the exact oposit decreasing while getting closer to the elbow and increasing afterwards. The f1 score showed very little variation being based of precisin and recall that vary in opposite ways.
K-Means: "KMeans-plot.png" | DBSCAN: "DBSCAN-plot.png"

Q6: Select some of the parameter values ​​tested in question five and examine the corresponding clusters more closely, generating the HTML file with the images. Explain how you selected these parameter values, discuss the different options and propose a recommendation that could help the biologists' task of classifying cells and rejecting segmentation errors.
R6: Selecting K = 13 for Kmeans. Because it was the value that made sure that most of the images had the same label as the other images in the same cluster while minimizing the number of clusters.
For DBScan we selected approximately 0.73 since it the closest to the actual elbow minimizing the amount of noise present in the clusters. But even this value isn't suitable classifying as noise a great many points and the majority of points are within a single cluster.
For the bioligist we suggest using the Kmeans algoritm or another, better algorithm, since DBSCAN does not fair particularly well clustering the data. Also considering that the Kmeans will produce more clusters than the number of groups we urge them to group various clusters in a way that will compile the points of the same label in a group of clusters.
For other parameters to note for the Kmeans would be: 3 or 4 clusters because it would try to have a cluster for each group (3 with noise, 4 without), however this results wouldn't classify correctly the points, grouping a considerable amout of points is the wrong cluster. 

Q7: Discuss advantages or problems with these two algorithms (K-Means and DBSCAN) for the purpose of helping biologists to organize these images, considering your theoretical knowledge of these algorithms as well as the results you obtained in your work.
R7: The great advantage of DBSCAN is that it can identify noise points but the main issue is that you have to manually adjust the eps parameter without much automation which is harder than it should be. DBSCAN is also not that good at seperating the features into clusters with our current data set.
The K-Means is better at separating the clusters but it doesn't do anything to reduce noise and it has problems  separating some sets. It is also dependent on the initial values for the first point of each cluster which makes it non deterministic

Q8: Consider other clustering algorithms embedded in the Scikit-Learn library. Choose one and apply it to this problem, optimizing the parameters you deem appropriate in the way that you find adequate. Justify your choices and discuss whether this option would yield more useful results for biologists.
R8: We chose Agglomerative Clustering since it obtains results comparable with K-means but since it is deterministic the results are more stable and won't change every time we run the algorithm. This would be beneficial for biologist since they wouldn't have to rely on luck to get good clusters.
For a better view of the results we ploted the scores for a variety of numbers of clusters.
 AgglomerativeClustering-plot.png

Q9: (Optional) Implement the Bissecting K-Means hierarchical clustering algorithm as described in the assignment page and Lecture 19. Examine and discuss the results and their application to the problem of helping the biologists select and classify cell images.
R9:
